README.md, before:

# [Agipix](https://sasakuruppuarachchi.github.io/agipix/) — Bridging Simulation and Reality for Aerial Robotics

![banner](_assets/images/exploded.gif)

Agipix is an open hardware and software platform for agile indoor autonomy that runs the same ROS 2, containerized stack in both Isaac Sim and on the real robot. A small 438×372 mm footprint with a multi-modal sensor suite (3D LiDAR, RGB camera, IMU) and a Jetson Orin NX companion enables robust exploration and mapping with zero code changes from sim to real.

<p align="center">
	<img alt="Agipix simulation" src="_assets/images/sim.png" width="45%" />
	<img alt="Agipix real prototype" src="_assets/images/real.jpg" width="45%" />
</p>

For the accompanying paper-style write-up, see `todo` (IEEE conference format). It details hardware co-design, the LiDAR–inertial–visual stack, the Isaac Sim digital twin, and sim-to-real synchronization.

## Highlights

1) Sim-to-real deployability — Identical ROS 2 containers and configs run in Isaac Sim and on hardware; zero code changes between environments.

2) Open-source hardware and software — Full BOM, CAD, simulation assets, and the containerized ROS 2 stack are released in this repo: [bom/BOM.md](bom/BOM.md), [cad/](cad/), [model_exports/](model_exports/), [doc/](docs/), [LICENSE](LICENSE).

3) ROS 2–based modular autonomy stack — Perception, state estimation, mapping, planning, PX4 interface, and logging run as decoupled nodes/containers with DDS QoS tuning.

4) Small form factor for indoor navigation — Compact 438×372 mm envelope with guards; measured thrust-to-weight ratio (TWR) ≈ 2.98:1 for precise maneuvers in tight spaces.

5) Extensive sensor system incl. 3D LiDAR — 3D LiDAR, RGB camera, and IMU integrated into a LiDAR–inertial–visual stack for robust mapping and exploration.

6) Modular hardware with expandability — Layered decks and accessible power/data breakouts simplify sensor or compute upgrades without redesign.

## Repository layout

- `doc/` — Setup and usage guides
	- `sim/1_setup_sim.md` — Simulation setup
	- `real/1_hardware_assembly.md` — Hardware assembly
	- `real/2_flashing_hardware.Md` — Flashing and firmware
	- `real/3_software_setup.md` — Software setup on the robot
- `bom/` — Bill of Materials
	- `BOM.md` — Human-readable BOM
	- `bom.csv` — Source BOM (CSV)
- `cad/` — Mechanical CAD (designs and fabrication)
- `model_exports/` — Exported models (STL/USD) for sim and docs
- `calibration/` — Calibration assets (real and sim)
- `_assets/` — Images, videos, and datasheets used in docs
- `todo` — IEEE-style paper source describing Agipix

## Quick start

### Simulation
- Follow the steps in [Simulation setup](docs/sim/1_setup_sim.md) to bring up Isaac Sim and the ROS 2 containers.

### Real hardware
- Start with [Hardware assembly](docs/real/1_hardware_assembly.md) for assembly.
- Then [Flashing and firmware](docs/real/2_flashing_hardware.Md).
- Finally [Software setup](docs/real/3_software_setup.md) to deploy the containerized stack.

## Bill of Materials (BOM)

- Browse the human-friendly BOM: [bom/BOM.md](bom/BOM.md)
- Source CSV for spreadsheets/scripts: [bom/bom.csv](bom/bom.csv)

## CAD and Simulation Assets

- Mechanical CAD and fabrication files live in `cad/`.
- Exported meshes and scene assets are in `model_exports/`.

## Paper and citation

- Main manuscript: [root.tex](root.tex) (IEEE conference format). If you use Agipix in academic work, please cite the paper once available. Until then, you may reference this repository.

## License

This project is released under the terms in [LICENSE](LICENSE).

## Acknowledgment

Agipix is supported by RAICAM, MSCA HORIZON EU.

## Contact Authors

- Sasanka Kuruppu Arachchige — sasa.kuruppuarachchi@gmail.com
- Joni Kämäräinen — joni.kamarainen@tuni.fi

Commit message:

Update documentation links for autonomy framework to reflect new directory structure

README.md, after:

# [Agipix](https://sasakuruppuarachchi.github.io/agipix/) — Bridging Simulation and Reality for Aerial Robotics

![banner](_assets/images/exploded.gif)

Agipix is an open hardware and software platform for agile indoor autonomy that runs the same ROS 2, containerized stack in both Isaac Sim and on the real robot. A small 438×372 mm footprint with a multi-modal sensor suite (3D LiDAR, RGB camera, IMU) and a Jetson Orin NX companion enables robust exploration and mapping with zero code changes from sim to real.

<p align="center">
	<img alt="Agipix simulation" src="_assets/images/sim.png" width="45%" />
	<img alt="Agipix real prototype" src="_assets/images/real.jpg" width="45%" />
</p>

For the accompanying paper-style write-up, see `todo` (IEEE conference format). It details hardware co-design, the LiDAR–inertial–visual stack, the Isaac Sim digital twin, and sim-to-real synchronization.

## Highlights

1) Sim-to-real deployability — Identical ROS 2 containers and configs run in Isaac Sim and on hardware; zero code changes between environments.

2) Open-source hardware and software — Full BOM, CAD, simulation assets, and the containerized ROS 2 stack are released in this repo: [bom/BOM.md](bom/BOM.md), [cad/](cad/), [model_exports/](model_exports/), [doc/](docs/), [LICENSE](LICENSE).

3) ROS 2–based modular autonomy stack — Perception, state estimation, mapping, planning, PX4 interface, and logging run as decoupled nodes/containers with DDS QoS tuning.

4) Small form factor for indoor navigation — Compact 438×372 mm envelope with guards; measured thrust-to-weight ratio (TWR) ≈ 2.98:1 for precise maneuvers in tight spaces.

5) Extensive sensor system incl. 3D LiDAR — 3D LiDAR, RGB camera, and IMU integrated into a LiDAR–inertial–visual stack for robust mapping and exploration.

6) Modular hardware with expandability — Layered decks and accessible power/data breakouts simplify sensor or compute upgrades without redesign.

## Repository layout

- `doc/` — Setup and usage guides
	- `sim/1_setup_sim.md` — Simulation setup
	- `real/1_hardware_assembly.md` — Hardware assembly
	- `real/2_flashing_hardware.Md` — Flashing and firmware
	- `real/3_software_setup.md` — Software setup on the robot
	- `autonomy/1_perception` - Perception side of the Agipix Autonomy
	- `autonomy/1_planning_control` - Planning and control side of the Agipix Autonomy
- `bom/` — Bill of Materials
	- `BOM.md` — Human-readable BOM
	- `bom.csv` — Source BOM (CSV)
- `cad/` — Mechanical CAD (designs and fabrication)
- `model_exports/` — Exported models (STL/USD) for sim and docs
- `calibration/` — Calibration assets (real and sim)
- `_assets/` — Images, videos, and datasheets used in docs
- `todo` — IEEE-style paper source describing Agipix

## Quick start

### Simulation
- Follow the steps in [Simulation setup](docs/sim/1_setup_sim.md) to bring up Isaac Sim and the ROS 2 containers.

### Real hardware
- Start with [Hardware assembly](docs/real/1_hardware_assembly.md) for assembly.
- Then [Flashing and firmware](docs/real/2_flashing_hardware.Md).
- Finally [Software setup](docs/real/3_software_setup.md) to deploy the containerized stack.

## Bill of Materials (BOM)

- Browse the human-friendly BOM: [bom/BOM.md](bom/BOM.md)
- Source CSV for spreadsheets/scripts: [bom/bom.csv](bom/bom.csv)

## CAD and Simulation Assets

- Mechanical CAD and fabrication files live in `cad/`.
- Exported meshes and scene assets are in `model_exports/`.

## Paper and citation

- Main manuscript: [root.tex](root.tex) (IEEE conference format). If you use Agipix in academic work, please cite the paper once available. Until then, you may reference this repository.

## License

This project is released under the terms in [LICENSE](LICENSE).

## Acknowledgment

Agipix is supported by RAICAM, MSCA HORIZON EU.

## Contact Authors

- Sasanka Kuruppu Arachchige — sasa.kuruppuarachchi@gmail.com
- Joni Kämäräinen — joni.kamarainen@tuni.fi
