docs/real/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
layout: doc
---
# Agipix (Real Robot) — Quick Guide

Use this page to jump into the real robot setup. Each section below gives a short summary and links to the full guide.

<img src="../../assets/images/diag/hard_overview.png" alt="HW overview" style="width:50%; max-width:50%; height:auto;">
<img src="../../assets/images/real.jpg" alt="HW overview" style="width:50%; max-width:50%; height:auto;">

## 1) Hardware Assembly

- Cut CF plates from the provided DXF patterns and post‑process as needed.
- Print TPU parts from the STL set (recommended: 0.2 mm layers, 40% infill; higher for bushings).
- Assemble frame, power, ESCs, motors, radio/telemetry, and flight controller.
- Complete low‑level checks and a brief manual flight validation.
- Mount compute (Jetson Orin NX + Hadron), antennas, wiring, and sensor cage (Livox Mid‑360, optional RGB/RGB‑D).

![Autonomy overview](../../assets/images/exploded_labled.jpg)

## 2) Flashing the Hardware

- Target: JetPack 6.x (Jetson Linux R36.3) on Orin NX/Nano with Connect Tech carriers.
- Prepare BSP_ROOT with NVIDIA BSP + sample rootfs; install CTI L4T BSP.
- Put the board in recovery, then flash via CTI menu script or manual NVMe script.
- On first boot: complete setup, join Wi‑Fi, SSH in; consider NoMachine, nvpmodel, Docker/NVIDIA toolkit.
- Keep handy: CTI docs/KB and NVIDIA references linked in the guide.

## 3) Interfacing PX4 and sensnors
- PX4 low level controller is wired up and interfaced
- Lidar, Mono camera, Realsense/Oak-D cameras are connected and interfaced

## 4) Software Setup

- Runtime is containerized; follow isaac_ros_common Docker setup.
- Branches: `agipix-hard` (hardware), `agipix-sim` (simulation).
- For sim instructions, see the simulation docs; for autonomy, continue to perception stack.

## Appendix — Hadron/Env Notes
File: `hadron_cfg.txt`

- Workspace layout hints for control, DDS agent, LiDAR drivers, and vision.
- Useful bash aliases and Docker entry helper.
- Sample nmcli snippet for a static wired IP.

.

---

Next Steps ?
- Simulation
- Autonomy
- UI

Commit message:

Add datasheets, images, and documentation for Wi-Fi HaLow mesh networking

docs/real/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
layout: doc
---
# Agipix (Real Robot) — Quick Guide

Use this page to jump into the real robot setup. Each section below gives a short summary and links to the full guide.

<img src="../../assets/images/diag/hard_overview.png" alt="HW overview" style="width:50%; max-width:50%; height:auto;">
<img src="../../assets/images/real.jpg" alt="HW overview" style="width:50%; max-width:50%; height:auto;">

## 1) Hardware Assembly

- Cut CF plates from the provided DXF patterns and post‑process as needed.
- Print TPU parts from the STL set (recommended: 0.2 mm layers, 40% infill; higher for bushings).
- Assemble frame, power, ESCs, motors, radio/telemetry, and flight controller.
- Complete low‑level checks and a brief manual flight validation.
- Mount compute (Jetson Orin NX + Hadron), antennas, wiring, and sensor cage (Livox Mid‑360, optional RGB/RGB‑D).

![Autonomy overview](../../assets/images/exploded_labled.jpg)

## 2) Flashing the Hardware

- Target: JetPack 6.x (Jetson Linux R36.3) on Orin NX/Nano with Connect Tech carriers.
- Prepare BSP_ROOT with NVIDIA BSP + sample rootfs; install CTI L4T BSP.
- Put the board in recovery, then flash via CTI menu script or manual NVMe script.
- On first boot: complete setup, join Wi‑Fi, SSH in; consider NoMachine, nvpmodel, Docker/NVIDIA toolkit.
- Keep handy: CTI docs/KB and NVIDIA references linked in the guide.

## 3) Interfacing PX4 and sensnors
- PX4 low level controller is wired up and interfaced
- Lidar, Mono camera, Realsense/Oak-D cameras are connected and interfaced

## 4) Software Setup

- Runtime is containerized; follow isaac_ros_common Docker setup.
- Branches: `agipix-hard` (hardware), `agipix-sim` (simulation).
- For sim instructions, see the simulation docs; for autonomy, continue to perception stack.

## 5) MANET Mesh networking
- This is a ***work in progress*** upgarde to the agipix framework to use the long rage robust capabilities of the [Wi-Fi HaLow](https://heltec.org/project/ht-hc01/) mesh networking.

## Appendix — Hadron/Env Notes
File: `hadron_cfg.txt`

- Workspace layout hints for control, DDS agent, LiDAR drivers, and vision.
- Useful bash aliases and Docker entry helper.
- Sample nmcli snippet for a static wired IP.

.

---

Next Steps ?
- Simulation
- Autonomy
- UI
